#Helpful LArSoft concepts

## Prodtypes

* `Prodsingle` generates a single particle pointed at the detector. The details of how such a particle interacts with the detector are contained in the next step Geant4 which contain rules for the interaction of particles.

* `Prodgenie` generates a neutrino flux (if you would have a single neutrino going through the detector you wouldn't see much, would you?). It actually needs a flux file in order to get started. Prodgenie contains the Genie rules for a very detailed simulation of the interaction between the neutrino and the nuclei in the detector.



## Genie vs. Geant4
* `Genie`, first stage of the simulation. It makes a super-accurate simulation of the interaction of the neutrino with the nucleus, using detailed nuclear models. It fully simulates whatever happens inside the nucleus, so you get stuff like multiple neutrons and protons smashing and bouncing around before generating a pion, for example.
* `Geant4`, second stage of the simulation. It takes the particles escaping the nucleus calculated in the Genie stage and propagates them in the detector. These can be a pion and a muon resulting from a neutrino interaction for example. It then calculates what the particles resulting from the interaction do with the material contained in the detector (e.g. generating multiple shower or track objects).

## MC Objects
* `McTruth`, coming from Genie. It contains the physics of the neutrino interaction at the Genie stage. Even though it's only one per event (there is one neutrino interaction per event, at least in the simulations) it is a vector so you still have to loop through it (even though it always has only ONE element).
More important, it contains a vector (accessible via `McTruth.GetParticles()`) which is a list of all the McParticles involved in the Genie stage.
* `McPart`, coming from Genie. It contains all particles generated at the Genie step. Basically all the stuff happening inside the nucleus and whatever escape. The neutrino and its direct products will all be McParts (e.g. neutrino, muon and pion from nu CC will all be listed in the McPart along with a lot of nucleons interacting at the Genie stage).
* `McTrack/McShower`, coming from Geant4. These are objects which effectively corresponds to either tracks or showers observed in the detector. This class contains the particles generated by the neutrino interaction AND the particles that these particles generate when they interact with the detector. So, continuing with the nu CC example, it will contain two McTracks (the pion and the muon, which are also McParts at the same time!) and a lots of other McTracks and McShowers which comes from the interaction/decay of the pion and muon.